---
layout: default
title: 2012 05 05 Planning meeting
---

Meeting notes 5-5-12

* * * * *

Takeaways

The big stuff: - We’re going to split the city into 3 sections, not 2.
There will be two L-shaped sections consisting primarily of houseboats,
each with a large platform centered in the L, and with the two Ls
roughly facing each other and a bunch of art in the middle. The third
section will be a line of large houseboats, powerboats, and other craft,
and will face the central art area. This has numerous advantages in
terms of faster assembly and better anchoring strategy. - Each of the
three city sections will need a harbormaster. Mike Katsevman is the
harbormaster for one of the Ls, and we need to find a harbormaster for
the other L. The harbormaster will direct the assembly, anchoring, and
disassembly of their city section over the radio. - We will use rope
barges to get between the city sections. Lemonade and Lasers will be one
of the rope barges. - Each city section will have a large sign, visible
from a distance, with information on how to contact the harbormaster.
Harbormasters will be reachable on frequency 69 on VHF as well as on
cellphone. - Adam Katz, our anchoring czar, has procured some large
anchors and extra line on loan. Harbormasters of the Ls should talk to
him to get these anchors. - We need to figure out who is going to be
operating a high-speed ferry to H&H. Paul Grasshoff – are you running
one?

Details & reminders: - Paul Wheeler is lending a large anchor to Adam
Katz - Candace will rebroadcast the call for central platform activities
- Candace will talk to Matt about what it takes to run the Memocracy
talks - Adam Katz will investigate painting the center of the central
platform on-site on Wednesday of the event. - Adam Katz will get at
least two 60lb Danforth anchors. - Matt will post to FB about storing
the central platforms closer to the bay. - Adam is going to get a lot of
cheap life vests. Ping him if you want one. - Matt and Adam will both
buy more line. - Find out what’s happening with Justin Corwin’s trailer
boat. Justin – is this where the sleeper service people are staying, or
somewhere else? How big is your boat, and can you add it to the craft
list?

* * * * *

City design

`   Signage`\
`   Assembly / harbormasters`\
`   Anchoring`\
`   Rope barges / ferries`\
`   `

Central platform events

`   Painting`

Storage / transport

Art focus

`   Art wrangler`

* * * * *

City design – houseboat-adding end. Sailboats bring own anchors

Lemonade and Lasers as the rope barge.

One side sets up first, then other side. Two lead anchor boats.

Chris -\> truck pricing / reservations. Justin -\> trailer/boat

3rd city section for sailboats and powerboats.

Dinghies may be donated by powerboat people

Two anchors

CQR – Paul willing to load additional large anchor.

Preferred frequency for boats as they approach. Choose a specific
hailing frequency. 69.

Iphone app

Matt to buy more rope. Adam to get more rope too.

Get both 60lb anchors

Eugene -\> Memocracy

Microtalks -\> Candace to run

Central platform events – Candace to rebroadcast

Adam to post about painting Could paint central platform at event on
Wednesday.

Additional local storage for central platform – matt to post to FB

Adam – get a lot of cheap/free life vests

Ferry ?? -- Check with Paul

Add bathrooms to user guide.
