---
layout: default
title: 2012 03 07 CRASHSpace Ephem2012 Planning Meeting
---

-   mpinner (a newb) is the boss of this meeting

technology of artistic survival the right crowd

-   proposed boat line of two segments

double u’s connected by reversed houseboats sleeper island/noise issues
should be resolve by community and individuals advocacy loss of central
space

-   Central platform -returning this year

Candice is running the org and plans for reuse/expansion kickstarter for
expansion/storage fees? pre-EI construction of modules duplicate design
for a sleeping platform? find an expert to check seaworthiness/safety?

-   BYOL designs?

Mojave Makers as a staging point construction and transport pooling???
nonpermanent and cheap vs. value design polyurethane foam can hold shape
and float at the same time stitch and glue wood building pontoons cost
-\> portability -\> features geodesic sphere \$1600-\$1700 for the
central platform last year stability was a problem with drums anchoring
(current/wind is significant) what about storing large permanent stuff?
(float houses)

`   local moorage`\
`   selling afterwards?`\
`   storage at mojave maker`

-   what are the other marinas we can access?
-   carpooling and transit

boats have their own schedules/organization central services need to be
public port comms

`   cellphone/radio?`

-   protocol of press

what’s up with photos/video? safe times? outdoors is a public
space/indoors has some expectation of privacy lack of leaders means lack
of consensus on policy

-   plots and plans
    -   Clive and Cyprian (money and help requested)
        -   Jellypus -giant lighted underwater thing

multiple tentacles 20ft across random grasping tentacles of death via
water pressure laptop control

-   -   Fireball Island -an island, made of fireballs

20 channel fireball sequencer laptop control

-   -   Paul Grasshoff

community support(sleeping arrangements, better technology) enable
growth but not tourists

-   -   Justin Corwin

community services hut/platform/hotel

-   -   Grace and Doug

Alaskan resilience experience balloon barge (latex)(Grace) waterproof
wearables/electronics Microship???!?!!!! pet friendly area?

-   -   Ethan

rockets, fires, and solar

-   -   Janet (JZ)

friendliness to kids? helper big boat experience(blue ocean) racing
sailor

-   -   Bruce

newb

-   -   Aaron

liveaboard experience - Candice(Candi) newb central platform event
planning

-   -   Tyson (experienced captain, now shipless)

BYOL: platform of tents semi-submersible platform design (spar buoy)

-   -   Joshua Truett

newb

-   -   Daveed

project management transport between EI and marina organization
speedboat captain

-   -   Kristy

3 Time champion organization Yoga class Politics/Book discussion
floating art gallery?? (request for help) carpentry experience

-   -   Jess

newb sculpture sailor friend will come

-   -   Ariana

newb looking for a berth a skilled writer marketing swan boats variant??
(request for help)

-   -   Josh

newb construction experience electricals experience

-   -   Naim

newb plus a crasher sailor embedded sensors in hostile environments

-   -   Dania

Burning man veteran artist/musician competitive swimmer/sailor ER
trained raw vegan supply seargeant

-   -   Cindy

newb has a boat theme: Red Boat floating art cook

-   -   Kyle

rockets/engineering design stabilizing platform(excessive complication)

-   -   CJ

enthusiasm veteran

-   -   Dune

burn the geek designer burning man vet

-   -   Anastasia

ephem vet burner experience speaker social issues chef sex
positiity/consent
