---
layout: default
title: 2013 Islands
---

Bay Station
-----------

Focusing on growth and creation on the water. Teaching fishing, testing
a green house (or at least plants) possibly making simple boats (an idea
in progress). I've had a few people say they likes the idea. This is
where some of the idea came from (video) and I'd like to test/build
something that might resemble that in terms of tech/idea testing. I'm
looking at anyone interested in helping build, teach, experiment, and
form an Island with those principals in mind.

[Open Sailing - International Ocean Station, Social Responsive
Interface](https://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=o3IS94Z2RZw)

Talk to Sean Kolk for more info.

Ithaka - Daytime Fun Island
---------------------------

Waterslide. Tea House. Cooperative spirit. Social but mellow evenings.
Currently at two boats, potentially open to more, but not sure. Contact:
bhopter at gmail.

Dromhaven
---------

7-8 boats. Probably full. Contact Chris Rasch (crasch@gmail.com) for
more info.

Titan
-----

8 houseboats, a few sailboats. Space Pirates. People seriously committed
to social responsibility, fun, and technology. And Bacon.

ShantyTown
----------

Los Angelopes (these guys: <http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9JmKMgi_A_g>)
came to the event unexpectedly and built an incredible island out of
found materials.

New to Ephemerisle and looking for more information?
----------------------------------------------------

If you're new to Ephemerisle, don't know anyone involved in the event,
and are looking to ask general questions, the best way to get in touch
is probably to join the Ephemerisle discussion Facebook group or send an
to e-mail ephemerisle.questions@gmail.com, rather than contacting
individual island captains directly (they have a lot on their plate
right now).
