---
layout: default
title: Art Project
---

Art and Crafts (the kind that float) are an essential part of the
Ephemerisle experience.

The community may be interested in funding art projects for
Not-Ephemerisle 2011. If you can't pay for it yourself, put together a
Kickstarter and email the mailing list about making it happen.

perfectly. It informational resource, I'll bookmark it and visit it
again!

Past projects:
--------------

### The Relentless Artstead Boat Project

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5171/5590777985_4aa481e1a8.jpg)

Facebook group:
<http://www.facebook.com/pages/The-Relentless-Artstead-Boat-Project/100198673362740>
Kickstarter:
<http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/2115247821/the-relentless-artstead-boat-project>

From their site: ''Our mission is to create a mobile community resource
on which to explore the possibilities of art, performance, and
seasteading while bringing boating into the world of art and art into he
world of boating. Crew members from the project "Swimming Cities of
Serenissima" by the artist Swoon have teamed up with an all star crew of
Bay Area artists to salvage a 1945 hand crafted houseboat. We plan to
convert the boat into a mobile artstead in the ad-hoc style of San
Francisco's unique D.I.Y. arts community.

The Seasteading Institute has provided funding for the purchase of the
boat and the rest is up to us! The boat has been lifted out of the
water, repaired, and inspected. Once underway have been utilizing
recycled materials, including a converted Mercedes diesel car engine, to
make the vision come to life. The next step is to move The Relentless
from her current location in Bethel Island to the San Francisco Bay
where she will continue to evolve through community input and ingenuity.

Join us on the Boat! We want to hear your ideas for journeys and events
as we usher in a new menu of collaborative arts and entertainment in,
on, and around your new community boat! There will be numerous
opportunities to gather for impromptu art shows and happenings on the
docks, bridges, and public water fronts of the San Francisco Bay. We
will also be organizing work days for those who would like to contribute
time and vision to the project.

Collaborators include: Ben Burke, Anja Ulfeldt, Anton Bertaux, Chicken
John Rinaldi, James (Skippy) Cross, and many many more to come.''

### Dandelion (aka, the world's largest koosh ball

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5270/5591369242_8b2b968111.jpg)

Blog link: <http://nasu-dengaku.livejournal.com/tag/koosh>

Made from close to 300 pool noodles, the Dandelion was the Epic Pool Toy
of Not-Ephemerisle 2010. Artist: Matt Bell

### Floating Swing

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5264/5590777115_9f365b637d.jpg)

The floating swing by Dav Yaginuma, was one of the interactive toys from
Ephemerisle 2009

### Ripple Theater

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5174/5590775205_653bc3d9a8.jpg)

The Ripple Theater used the ripples in the water as an analog ray-tracer
to create trippy visual effects from a projector's image. People dancing
on platforms nearby created ripples in time with the music, which then
created synced visuals on the screen. Created by Matt Bell at
Ephemerisle 2009

### Turtle Boat

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5066/5590779025_44c0f8b445.jpg)

From 2009, creators unknown.

### Achievement Lounge

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5172/5591369490_7c1556355c.jpg)

People who reached the end of the path to the Achievement Lounge got
free beer. Then they had to try to get back. By Matt Bell, Ephemerisle
2009.

### Apocaisle

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5306/5590777883_4fc92dc1a8.jpg)

Apocaisle was an impressively large two-story pirate boat from
Ephemerisle 2009. Creators included Paul Bohm and many others.
