---
layout: default
title: Basics
---

You'll need a place to sleep
----------------------------

### Houseboats

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5174/5590778283_8bdffd7c10_m.jpg)

The most common option is to rent a houseboat. The main
houseboat-renting marina in the area is [Paradise Point
Marina](http://www.sevencrown.com/houseboats/index.htm). A typical
houseboat sleeps 10. With the shoulder season and "repeat customer"
stacking discounts, a 4-day Summit houseboat rental comes to \$1050.
This it not bad at all split 10 ways, when you consider that each person
gets 3 nights of lodging for slightly over \$100. At this point, all you
have to spend to get the boat is a \$300 deposit. The balance is due 45
days prior to the event. To book, ask for Vicki at Seven Crown. The
additional costs of fuel, oil, and insurance will run around \$200.

Paradise Point Marina also rents [patio
boats](http://www.sevencrown.com/smallboats/index.htm), and grants
special permission for the event to keep them out overnight. Four to six
people can comfortably sleep on the floor of a patio boat in sleeping
bags. Patio boats come with an ice chest, but do not include a bathroom,
water tank, or grill.

You do not need a boating license to operate a houseboat.

### Buy a small boat

This is less ridiculous than it sounds. Last year one attendee bought a
small speedboat and trailer for \$750. I think he resold it afterwards.
As a nice benefit, he was able to help the community by ferrying lots of
passengers to H&H marina.

### Buy a large boat

Buy a large boat and sail or motor up to the event. There are navigable
waterways all of the way from SF to the event. Or... convince someone
who owns a boat that they want to attend the event, and join them as
crew. Lots of people with boats at local marinas could be itching for a
voyage.

### Build your own craft

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5066/5590779025_44c0f8b445_m.jpg)
![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5306/5590777883_4fc92dc1a8_m.jpg)

We've seen several projects of this sort. They run the gamut from small
craft that can be put together in a weekend to large, ambitious
platforms. If you're undertaking a project, you should consult the
mailing list for advice. Learn from others' successes and failures!

Read the [2011 design
specifications](images/2011-platform-design-final.pdf) for the
[Community Platform](community-platform.html), which can be scaled down
to make an individual 8'x8' platform..

### Attach to the community platform

The team working on the [Community Platform](community-platform.html) is
looking at modular designs for stable sleeping platforms that can be
added like lego blocks.

### Sleep in an inflatable boat

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5062/5590778059_999416f665_m.jpg)

It's been done. It's risky. Your boat may pop. Your stuff may get wet.

### Buy a big old boat, spend months refurbishing it into a giant crazy epic circus show boat, and then fill it with all your friends

![](http://farm6.static.flickr.com/5171/5590777985_4aa481e1a8_m.jpg)

Perhaps the least likely option of all. But when there's a Will, there's
a
[way](http://www.kickstarter.com/projects/2115247821/the-relentless-artstead-boat-project).

### Be a day tripper

OK, you can be lame and just show up Saturday for a day. Check with the
various islands to see what's required to visit.

You'll need to get from the marina to the event
-----------------------------------------------

If you're in a powered boat, this is easy.

If you're not in a powered boat: H&H Marina is the closest to the event,
but the distance involved (roughly 3 miles) is still long enough that
you won't want to paddle. Thus, if you've built your own unpowered
floating craft, you will have to arrange with one of the houseboat
owners or speedboat owners to get it towed to the event.

If you're joining a houseboat: We will self-organize regular shuttles
from H&H to the event like we did last year. Join the facebook page and
ping Chris Rasch and Terry Floyd for info on how to get to the event
site from H&H Marina, or check the [2012 transportation
document](https://hackpad.com/lOmbmtU3NzO#Transportation-between-H&H-Marina-and-Ephemerisle).
