---
layout: default
title: Culture
---

Culture survey
--------------

<table border="1">
<tr>
<th>
Name (optional):

</th>
<th>
What was your first Ephemerisle (optional)?

</th>
<th>
I want Ephemerisle to be an Event/Community whereâ€¦

</th>
<th>
Any other thoughts/ideas (optional)?

</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
alexis nelson

</td>
<td>
Never been

</td>
<td>
i can frolic with friends on the water, forge new connections w/ other
nautical adventurers, and enjoy the revelry on the not-so-high seas ;)

</td>
<td>
just saying hi! i'm a n00b to ephermisle, but me and my burning man
campmates (camp BUSTED!, 7:45 and F last year) are excited about this
event and hope to attend the next meeting :)

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td>
2011

</td>
<td>
Brilliant minds, creative folks, water-enthusiasts and those who wish to
surround themselves with these people -of all ages- can come together to
form a community to learn, share, love, inspire, teach, enjoy and
create.

</td>
<td>
I suppose it's not feasible any longer with the bigger crowd, but I did
prefer the greater sense of unity that the boat layout of 2011 provided,
as opposed to 2012. Physically together as a whole seems so much more
gratifying to me.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
greg

</td>
<td>
2011

</td>
<td>
I have opportunities to build if I want to build, play if I want to
play, dance if I want to dance, and sleep if I want to sleep! (: I'm
pretty interested in seeing what happens when you get a bunch of open
minded, creative people together.

</td>
<td>
Live long and prosper, yo.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
James Hogan

</td>
<td>
2009

</td>
<td>
I want Ephemerisle to be an event community/where: the seasteading
vision is central to the event's evolution and values. As the organizer
of the first Ephemerisle in 2009, I'm inspired by the seasteading
vision. Diversity and innovation in governance is something I think the
world desperately needs. The founding vision for Ephemerisle was to be
an event that could be a living microcosm of seasteading ideas -- a
microcosm that might someday evolve into a macrocosm, i.e. actual
operating seastead cities. Picture Burning Man's evolution into a city
-- but without the legal constraints stopping its growth. That's
powerful shit. How many festivals can say that? As festivals go, Burning
Man is at the high end of the scale of how much it impacts the world,
and even there people struggle with how to bring its impact back to the
real world. Ephemerisle, on the other hand, could literally grow fully
into its vision. With this in mind, there are only two core cultural
principles that I care about at Ephemerisle: 1. Non-imposition: Islands
shouldn't impose themselves on other islands 2. Free exit: People are
allowed to leave islands Those are the same two fundamental ethical
principles that would govern a seasteading world. That doesn't mean
there aren't other cultural values -- just that I'd like to see those
two as the core, the inviolable ones. As an example, let's say a culture
starts to arise of "no commercialism," until one year a group says "we
want to start an island where commercialism is OK." If the community
said "no, that's not OK", that undermines the non-imposition rule. It's
only in our ability to accommodate diversity that the power of
seasteading, and Ephemerisle, will really become evident. In my opinion,
if anything about our culture, aside from those two core principles,
actively discourages people from coming, we've lost what makes this
event special -- and turned it into merely a festival on the water.

</td>
<td>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Victoria Parks

</td>
<td>
Never been

</td>
<td>
I feel welcome to join in :)

</td>
<td>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Zoe Miller

</td>
<td>
2009

</td>
<td>
law enforcement doesn't bother us... I'd like for us not to be a target
with a captain selling alcohol without a permit...

</td>
<td>
more Seasteading content to attract more people who want Seasteading

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Jessica Lissner

</td>
<td>
2012

</td>
<td>
Everyone is safe and prepared, feels welcome and comfortable with the
environment around them- but can do what they want, with lots of
activities and things going on. More art projects and universal
participation would be great. Everyone should contribute something that
took some level of preparation and / or works hard to develop something
for the community.

</td>
<td>
Create independent islands that are conglomerations of multiple boats
that support a set of ideas / culture and rules. (I am already doing
that with a single (or more, if we need it) boat.) Not everyone has to
agree to the same thing, but if they plan to join or visit an island,
they support the ways of those people.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Nicholas

</td>
<td>
Never been

</td>
<td>
I can come and get lit, party, make out with strange women, and
hopefully discuss the needs of society.

</td>
<td>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Dan 'terminationshok

</td>
<td>
2012

</td>
<td>
We prototype tech for living on water. We express ourselves fully.
People feel safe and welcome. No central leadership. Each 'island'
decides how to have ephemerisle, and is responsible for
anchoring/safety. Each boat is prepared to be self sufficient in adverse
conditions.

</td>
<td>
Water taxi for travelling between islands? I would like to do a shift
helping with anchoring, trash pickup, or ferries.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td>
2009

</td>
<td>
People experimenting with living together in adverse conditions, from a
variety of backgrounds. It is a party, but also a way to develop an
understanding of the diversity that makes humanity unique.

</td>
<td>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Adam

</td>
<td>
2010

</td>
<td>
My interests are community, experimentation, and art. We seem to be on
the right track for the last two. As for community, I think it's
important that we stay united, and work together to make this event a
success. There were reports that the West, or the North, or the South
were unwelcoming last year. That needs to stop, and we need to work
towards everyone feeling welcome and included. I also think that
self-reliance is critical. I don't want to see this turn into an event
where a core group or organization takes care of everything. I want to
see it remain bottom up, where individuals, boats, and islands are
self-sufficient and work together on a more or less equal basis. And
finally, I also would like to see a return to Ephemerisle as a potential
stepping stone toward building communities out in the ocean, but I'm
afraid we've already lost that part of the event.

</td>
<td>
</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
Christopher Rasch

</td>
<td>
2009

</td>
<td>
I get to play with awesome, fun, responsible friends (both new and old)
on the water, learn new skills, and work toward making seasteading on
the open ocean a reality.

</td>
<td>
You what's delicious? Chicken burritos. Tasty, tasty burritos.

</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>
</td>
<td>
</td>
<td>
</td>
<td>
</td>
</tr>
</table>
Defining our values (June 2012 worksheet)
-----------------------------------------

**Tagline:**

*"Ephemerisle: Building and discovering together"*

-   Adam - Yeah!
-   "It's all fun and games until somebody loses an island" - Brad
-   

**Values:**

*"No spectators (contribute something)"*

-   Adam - Yeah!
-   -   

*"Self-reliance" or as a possible alternative "self-responsibility"*

-   Adam - preference for self-reliance.
-   -   

*"Self-expression"*

-   Adam - Through art, memocracy, or some other means I think it's a
    big positive to encourage people to express themselves.
-   -   

*"Helping each other"*

-   Adam - Yeah, but I'd like to find a better way to phrase this. And I
    do think this is different than communal effort since it's more on
    the personal level.
-   -   

*"Inclusion"*

-   Adam - I think that it is totally unacceptable that people felt
    unwelcome on other islands. We need to strive to do better.
-   dave w - Was this an issue? I never made it away from the north
    island, but that had to do with nautical rather than psycho-social
    factors.
-   

*"Communal Effort"*

-   Adam - Yeah, that's the way we do things.
-   -   

*"Other??"*

-   dave w - I think "communal effort"/"helping each other" is sort of a
    link between "radical self reliance" and "inclusion" - we
    (especially those of us who have been to a few of the events now)
    want to be "self reliant and then some" - with enough to share, to
    help "pay it forward" and cover the needs of the newcomers. (e.g.,
    bring plenty of bacon; be prepared to help things stay safe; let's
    get good at boat-piloting so we can help everyone get tied up
    smoothly; etc. etc.)
-   -   

Elements of a successful Ephemerisle culture (notes from June 2011 meeting)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

(Chris, Matt, Adam, Isaac, Dave, Terry, Becca, Robert, Helen, Tammy,
Richard, Ulrich, Jade, Greg, Ping)

A number of ideas were thrown around:

-   Radical self-reliance
-   No spectators
-   Take care of yourself and others
-   People may offer you things, but don't expect to be a freeloader
-   Expect to work
-   Bring something to the table

We agreed on this -- all attendees should be self-reliant and should
part of the community.

Also, we seemed to define what we are about as a community:

-   **Building and discovering together.** (Not static. It's a process.)

TODO: Before the next year's event, we need to come up with a clear set
of expectations (and don't expects) for attendees. (e.g. EXPECT to be
self reliant...)

Advertise to the right audience: Don't call it a party. Absolutely don't
show up looking for a boat. The pictures of naked people on the boats
send completely the wrong message.

Pull people in: delegate, give them responsibility, invite them to
participate.

Ephemerisle 2011 was overwhelmingly white, wealthy engineers. Do we need
to do something about that?

Some of us personally really like the "no vending" culture at Burning
Man. But on the other side of this, there seemed to be universal
agreement that 2011's ironic t-shirt sales were okay. In 2011, one boat
was selling booze next to another boat giving it away for free. Our
culture may simply dictate what people bring to sell, and what they
don't.

For safety and emergencies, one contact per boat.

Following ancient mariner's code, every vessel needs a captain and the
captains need to have sole and final say in regards to the handling of
the boat (course, anchoring, tying up to the flotilla, etc.) This is
critical, because the last thing you want when your boat is rapidly
drifting toward the rocks is to waste time with a vote, or trying to
gather consensus.

But let's not have the captains decide all kinds of things. The "council
of captains" should have very limited powers.

* * * * *
