---
layout: default
title: Ephemerisle 2012 incidents
---

For each rescue incident or other mishap, add a section here using the
template.

Note: There were no serious injuries in 2012 and in most of these
incidents there was little to no risk of serious injury. We're keeping
track of these simply to learn from our mistakes and do better next
year.

\
\_\_TOC\_\_

\
==Template for adding an incident==

**Location**:

**Time**:

**People affected or rescued**:

**Level of personal or property risk**:

**How the situation occurred**:

**How folks responded**:

**How the situation could have been prevented**: **How the response
could have been better**:

Multiple paddler rescue near the rocks, Thursday afternoon
----------------------------------------------------------

**Location**: Near rocks on the east side.

**Time**: Thursday afternoon (?)

**People affected or rescued**: One person paddling an inflatable
dinghy, and two people paddling an inflatable kayak.

**Level of personal or property risk**: The paddlers were stuck and
couldn't get to where they wanted to go, but no one was at risk of
injury.

**How the situation occurred**: Wind blew the inflatable crafts east
toward the rocks, and the paddlers were not strong enough to keep
themselves from drifting aground. All paddlers were wearing life vests.

**How folks responded**: The paddlers waited at the rocks for others to
come get them. A powered craft towed one of the inflatables back to the
north raft. The other inflatable with two paddlers tied on behind
another, stronger kayaker with a faster kayak, and the three people
paddled together to get back to the north raft.

**How the situation could have been prevented**:

**How the response could have been better**:

Houseboats break away from the south raft, Saturday
---------------------------------------------------

**Location**: Eastern side of south raft.

**Time**: Saturday (more precise time?)

**People affected or rescued**: \~10 people on Chaos Legion and one
other houseboat

**Level of personal or property risk**:

**How the situation occurred**: (Someone please provide a detailed
account.)

Unclear what precipitated incident. Walking along the line of
houseboats, Pablo (me) noticed that bow (upwind) cleats of Chaos was not
attached to the rest of the raft, and a two-foot gap had already opened.
There was no obvious failed line on either of the boats - it was as
though someone had just removed it. The gap between the boats opened
rapidly with no time for reaction, with leverage from the bow snapping
off the rear cleat and letting the two easternmost boats peel off. Three
people at the stern (bhayes, paulg and ?) had just enough time to leap
between railings from the departing boats back to the main raft.

Patri: I had noticed earlier that several of the boats in the raftup
were not tied together properly at the cleats, they did have the the
usual loop-and-fold-under figure eights, but rather the rope was loosely
circled around the set of cleats. I retied a couple of the boats, but
had not gotten to that one yet :(.

**How folks responded**:

**How the situation could have been prevented**:

**How the response could have been better**:

Kayaker rescue near breakaway boats, Saturday afternoon
-------------------------------------------------------

**Location**: Near the two houseboats that broke away from the south
raft.

**Time**: Saturday, about 4pm

**People affected or rescued**: One kayaker wearing a life vest.

**Level of personal or property risk**: No risk of drowning, but he
could have lost the kayak, drifted into the rocks, gotten stuck there,
been cold etc.

**How the situation occurred**: The kayaker departed from the breakaway
houseboats intending to head toward the north raft. Encountering
stronger than expected wind, he turned toward the south raft instead.
The wind and waves caught the kayak and it overturned, leaving the
kayaker in the water wearing the life vest and holding onto the paddle
and kayak. The kayaker was unable to climb back into the kayak after
several attempts, and began to drift east toward the rocks.

**How folks responded**: The kayaker tried to swim back toward the
houseboats, towing the kayak behind him, making slow but uncertain
progress. He called for help. Someone from the houseboats jumped into
the water with a line and passed him the line, and they pulled
themselves back to the two breakaway boats.

**How the situation could have been prevented**:

**How the response could have been better**:

Radio FMerisle
--------------

**Location**: Singapore Cut (between N Mandeville Tip and S Mandeville
Tip)

**Time**: Saturday morning/evening

**People affected or rescued**: Crew of Radio FMerisle

**Level of personal or property risk**: Minimal

**How the situation occurred**: Approaching a piling with intent to
moor, lost way & steering, wind pushed the houseboat around and grounded
the left front pontoon in the mud.

**How folks responded**: Evaluated situation, concluded that we were
stuck by the descending tide but there was little immediate risk.
("We're not going anywhere for a while. In these conditions, there's
something to be said for that.") Determined that next high tides were
approx. at dark and early next AM. Placed a line from bow of houseboat
to piling in hopes of avoiding having the wind blow the boat farther up
the bank as the tide came back up. Contacted marina personnel who
attempted to tow the houseboat loose (unsuccessful) and eventually set
out an anchor from stern of houseboat. Eventually freed houseboat from
bank about dark on Saturday, secured it a little farther offshore to
avoid getting stuck. Sunday morning, we pulled the boat farther from the
bank and managed eventually to depart under power.
