---
layout: default
title: February 2013 Planning Meeting
---

Feb 23, 2013: Ephemerisle Planning Meeting
==========================================

ISLANDS
-------

Chris R. and Kristy are planning a professionally anchored island with a
chilled out atmosphere.

Taran and Scott N. are in the early stages of discussing a louder, party
island.

Sean K is planning an island with a seasteading focus: sustainability,
boat skills, fishing, etc.

Everyone needs to start advertising their island and recruiting people
to them. It needs to be clear to everyone through the Facebook group and
the wiki that if you're not a part of an Island, you will be out there
in the water by yourself.

PLATFORMS
---------

There were two 20'x24' platforms last year. The storage unit for them is
paid up until May 1. After that, unless anyone claims the materials they
will be sold on craiglists.

Soâ€¦ step up if you want platform building materials and are ready to
take responsibility for building something with them!

Taran and Scott N. may take half of the material to build a big platform
for their island next year. The rest of the materials may go to a bunch
of smaller platforms (8'x8'? 12'x8'?) for various activity and art
projects.

The biggest hurdle by far in building these platforms is loading the
plywood on and off of the houseboats through the narrow gate at the
marina. Collectively we should be looking at and working on idea for
solving that bottleneck.

TRANSPORTATION
--------------

Two transportation problems need to be solved. Getting people from shore
to the islands and getting people around the city from island to island.

John B. has a friend who can provide a 16' Roundabout with a 70hp engine
that should work perfectly getting people to and from the marina.

There is still talk about Bus Ephemerisle. And I think Taran is going to
be looking further into it. One idea was Train Ephemerisle with a bunch
of 8'x8' platforms tied together.

Storage for projects remains a big problem. Jenn Z has a big backyard
which might be available for storing things. A massive 20'x40' storage
space can be rented on Bethel Island for \$225/mo. Richardson Bay can be
used to permanently anchor a boat.

ART
---

Jenn Z is making a 2 meter magic LED lotus flower out of trash.

Sean K and his island will be working on bioremediation (sp?) and a
tensegrity sculpture.

Adam is looking into an art project that involves fire and water. Maybe
a flaming waterfall.

Lindsey will be hosting some life vest decorating parties.

Chris R is working on two ideas. Inflatable art sculptures that can be
easily transported to the event, then blown up to size. Also, a giant
moon to light up the night sky (and thumb our noses at Chicken John).

Randall is working on soundscapes and lightscapes.

And Taran is building "something awesome".

Bus Ephemerisle (or "The Ephemerisle Train") remain on a bunch of
people's minds, but we still don't know what we're building or where to
store it.

Talk to these people if you want to help out!

NEXT MEETING(S)
---------------

Laura S will host the next Ephemerisle Planning meeting in San Francisco
sometime in March.

There are also upcoming raft-ups in both Aquatic Park, SF and at Angel
Island.
